---
title: 'Way way back in &rsquo;06...'
layout: year
year: 2006
menu-label: '&rsquo;06'
date: '2006-12-31 23:59:59'
---


Vision for New York changes its name to The Open Planning Project, Inc. http://wrkng.net/wp-content/uploads/2011/08/topp-logo1.png

Cholmes returns to lead OpenGeo.

May 26h - blog post about OpenPlans: "OpenPlans is a free, hosted, and integrated suite of web-based tools intended to give active citizens the resources they need to organize virtually to effect real world change.   OpenPlans hopes to decrease the barriers to entry for community members as they collaborate to improve their society.  As an easy-to-use integrated on-line environment, OpenPlans offers proven, useful tools -- web space, wikis, email lists, forums, etc. -- free of charge and free of advertising.  Uniting mature open source solutions, improving existing projects, and developing new technologies, OpenPlans will evolve to meet the needs of its users."

June 20th - Streetsblog launches, built by Nick Grossman and Andrew Fischler, Jr.

June 30th - Ian Bicking joins "I'll soon be starting a new job with a non-profit organization, The Open Planning Project. I'm still trying to get a handle on the exact goals of the project, as the history of TOPP has involved several subprojects, and the project I'm working on is both complementary to the other projects (which are primarily about participatory urban planning) and also a new direction. The short form of the mission seems best described as creating a Sourceforge for community organizing, which covers a lot and seems to be pretty accurate. I haven't yet figured out how to concisely explain it to friends and family members who aren't programmers." http://www.ianbicking.org/new-job-open-plans.html
