---
title: 'FixCity'
layout: snapshot
image: 'images/2009/fixcity.jpg'
image_column_size: 6
---

With FixCity, we tried to make requesting bike parking easier. Before, if you wanted to request a rack you had to apply via your community board, and they'd pass the request onto the DOT. You don't know if I recently submitted the same request, and often, requests would be not be implemented because of a technical restriction like sidewalk widths or adjacent land uses. 

In FixCity, all the requests and their status were visible on a map. Then, teams of trained volunteers evaluted each location to see if all the technical critera were met, before passing a bulk request to the city for installation. The process was intended to reduce the rate of rejected requests and speed the process of getting racks installed. 

FixCity started out as a project of Transportation Alternative's <a href="http://nag-brooklyn.org/2009/10/want-more-bike-racks-try-fixcity/">Brooklyn Volunteer committee</a>, who did most of the hard work of checking locations and training volunteers. We built the website using Django, and Clarence at Streetfilms contributed a useful video how-to guide for siting a rack in NYC.

<iframe id="vimeo_player" src="http://player.vimeo.com/video/12061798?js_api=1&amp;js_swf_id=vimeo_player&amp;title=0&amp;byline=0&amp;portrait=0&amp;color=9086c0" width="560" height="315" frameborder="0"></iframe>

Lily blogged about the project: *We are not attempting to write an application that fixes every planning issue in New York City. Rather, we are focusing on a specific planning issue, in a specific place to maximize integration between a governmental process and a particular community’s needs. We plan to expand this tool for use throughout the city (and hope it might prove useful for other planning issues too), but believe we’ll get better results by starting with the specific. The concept of submitting requests in a “project set,” for example, may be the single most helpful outcome of this project for the DOT, but is not emphasized in preceding projects like SeeClickFix and FixMyStreet.*

<a href="https://github.com/openplans/fixcity"><span class="octicon octicon-mark-github"> fixcity</span></a> 