---
title: 'cibi.me'
layout: gallery
has_content: true
content_column_size: 6
gallery_columns: '1'
gallery_thumb: 
  - images/2012/cibime.jpg
  - images/2012/cibi-me.png
  - images/2012/CiBimemap.jpg
gallery_image:
  - images/2012/cibime.jpg
  - images/2012/cibi-me.png
  - images/2012/CiBimemap.jpg
gallery_caption: 
  - 
  -
  -
---

Today, there are lots of apps for planning bike routes and using bike share, but not so many back in 2012 when NYC's bike share was first rolling out. We created cibi.me to fill that gap, using OpenTripPlanner to plan a route that got you to the nearest available bike, and biking from there to your destination. And even though there are many apps these days, none are as simple and fast as cibi.me was.

Here's what our former colleague Nick Grossman [wrote at the time](http://www.nickgrossman.is/2012/05/18/cibi-me/):

<blockquote>First, it’s beautiful and fun to use.  The OpenPlans team has been putting out a ton of these small, beautifully designed and really fun sites recently (see change.st, beautiful.st), including the NYC Bike Share location suggestions map that got thousands of suggestions when it launched last year.  A lot of the functionality you see here has been built into the open source Shareabouts app.

Second, it’s built on top of the OpenTripPlanner — OTP is an open source, multi-modal trip routing engine that OpenPlans has been working on for a number of years now; originally built for the new TriMet system map, it’s also been used in several other countries.  Cibi.me represents one of the more creative ways to use OTP — as an API which the site talks to via JS. OTP lets you do awesome stuff like use the “bike triangle” to prioritize between safety, speed and flatness. (note that this feature was originally developed by David Emory for the Atlanta A-TRAIN mobility map).</blockquote>

<a href="https://github.com/demory/cibi.me"><span class="octicon octicon-mark-github"> cibi.me</span></a>